Additional section for the search span (#25165)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/trace_explorer/trace_view.md

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Span search

> In the Waterfall and Flamegraph visualizations, the search option allows you to quickly find the spans that meet specific queries. Spans that match the search query are highlighted in the trace view and you can navigate between these matches using the arrows next to the search bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Waterfall and Flamegraph visualizations, the search option allows you to find the spans that meet specific queries. Spans that match the search query are highlighted in the trace view and you can navigate between these matches using the arrows next to the search bar.
```

<img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4c6fc35a-65b7-42ee-bc24-fcb9adb9d0b8" alt="Search bar" style="width:90%;">

> Note: When the `Error` checkbox is selected, the search results return spans that match the query and are in an error state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: When the `Error` checkbox is selected, the search results return spans that match the query and are in an error state.
```

> The search query on trace side panel supports the following options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The search query on the trace side panel supports the following options:
```

**Free text search:**

> Free-form text search allows filtering by service, resource or operation name. It highlights the spans containing the specified text within these categories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Free-form text search allows filtering by service, resource, or operation name. It highlights the spans containing the specified text within these categories.
```

Example: `web`

**Key-value search:**
Use key:value expression to filter spans with specific key-value pairs.
Example: `service:web-ui`

> Note: Wildcard is not supported for Trace search bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: Wildcards are not supported in the Trace search bar.
```

**Supported experssions:**
Group expression: `language:(go OR python)`

> Boolean expression: `service: event-query OR terminator`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Boolean expression: `service:event-query OR terminator`
```

Range expression: `duration:>200ms`

> Note: Numberical values suport `<`, `>`, `<=`, and `>=` expressions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: Numerical values support `<`, `>`, `<=`, and `>=` expressions.
```
